# CPP_Synthesizer
This is a digital synthesizer created with C++ and the SFML library. It relies on keyboard input events to both play notes and change the varying settings including an amplitude envelope, filter, LFO, and 3 oscillators. Although the latency is low, it is technically not playing in real time, instead it computes the audio signal before the note is actually played. It does this by first computing the oscillator data, then passing it through the amplitude envelope and then the filter and LFO are calculated at the same time before finally being sent to the SFML audio buffer. The actual audio signal begins being calcuated from scratch usng a simple algorithm that I found <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y4qiT3E3RE4" target="_blank">here</a>. Using this algorithm, I was able to implement Square and Sine wave signals and from there use those functions to create Frequency Modulated Sine and Square waves, with a Modulator Amplitude paramter the user can play with. The Filter I used, found in the filt.h and filt.cpp files, is external code written by Mike Perkins, the original post where I found this can be found <a href="http://www.cardinalpeak.com/blog?p=1841" target="_blank">here</a>. I also used the orignial Sine wave function to create the LFO by computing a very low frequency Sine function and storing it in a vector. I then add each value to the cutoff frequency for each sample the filter function is run on to basically precalculate the LFO and filter at the same time before sending the samples to the SFML sound buffer. This project is an older one for me so there is plenty I would change here. First off, I should be declaring the functions and variabels in the header files and then implementing them in .cpp files. Secondly, I am playing dangerously with pointer and dynamic memory here and would most likely be better off using smart pointers. I'd also like to tasks instead of threads for parallel processing and replace the SFML key events with more modern C++ events.
